Add 'piecing-it-together' exercise (#2554)
exercism/problem-specifications: exercises/jigsaw-puzzle/instructions.md

Reviewer: I think this file could be improved a bit by adding an example, ideally with some visual(s)

Author: What kind of visuals did you have in mind and how could I include them?

Reviewer: That I'm not sure of, but we've had @habere-et-dispertire create some nice images.

Reviewer: Let's skip the visuals, but maybe include one example in the instructions?

Author: I think I may be able to provide some visuals, given a little more time.

Reviewer 2: ## Portrait 4×5 == 14 + 6
![portrait](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/994e73dd-a928-4876-9ba5-1d2927603f26)

## Square 5×5 == 16 + 9
![square](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1405bba9-5ae2-421d-ac2d-6b01e3c5b42b)

Author: You beat me to it.

Reviewer: Lovely

Author: Would you add those to the image repo so I can link them? Thanks!

Reviewer 2: https://github.com/exercism/images/pull/32

> You get part of the information and need to fills in the blanks.
> In case the data is insufficient or contradictory the user needs to be notified of the issue.

Reviewer 3: 1) No need to mention anything about "a user notification". How tracks choose to go about error handling is up to them.
2) Top heading is missing
```suggestion
# Instructions

Given partial information about a jigsaw puzzle, complete the remaining details.
```

Reviewer 3: Updated suggestion in order to keep the "error handling" and make it more clear.

The full information about the jigsaw puzzle contains the following parts:

> - `pieces`: Number of pieces

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `pieces`: Total number of pieces
```

- `border`: Number of border pieces
- `inside`: Number of inside pieces

> - `rows`: Number of rows of pieces

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `rows`: Number of rows
```

> - `columns`: Number of columns of pieces

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `columns`: Number of columns
```

> - `aspectRatio`: Aspect ratio of columns / rows

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `aspectRatio`: Aspect ratio of columns to rows
```

> - `format`: Format of the puzzle: `"portrait" / "square" / "landscape" / "globe"`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `format`: Puzzle format, which can be `portrait`, `square`, `landscape`, or `globe`
```

> For the rows and columns of a puzzle globe, assume an aspect ratio of 1.0, so that rows and columns are identical.

Reviewer 3: Can be simplified.
```suggestion
For a puzzle in `globe` format, assume an aspect ratio of 1.0.
```

> Spoilt by the comfort of your helper, your friend now no longer wants to count border pieces.
> To help with estimating, you take the number of pieces and return an array of the possible numbers of rows and columns.
> 

Reviewer 3: 1) This is a new task. It should be safe to remove it from here since the first line already covers it.
2) Arrays is too specific, some languages don't have them.
3) Why is "count border pieces" mentioned here?
```suggestion
Spoilt by the comfort of your helper, your friend now no longer wants to count border pieces.
To help with estimating, you take the number of pieces and return an array of the possible numbers of rows and columns.

```

Author: 1. ?
2. Replacing "array" with "list"
3. Because that is the fastest way to get the info needed for an unsolved puzzle - to get rows or columns, you need to at least partially solve it

Reviewer 3: 1. **Tasks** are usually placed at the top of the file to make it clear what the user needs to do. Since the first line already outlines the main task, this task should be included there as well. Additionally, this task asks for extra information about the puzzle based on partial data, so the first line should be sufficient. However, if you still wish to include it, I strongly recommend placing it at the top of the file.

2. Some languages **don't use lists**. They may choose to return sets or other data structures to better suit the exercise. Therefore, there's no need to specify implementation details in the instructions.

3. That's fine, but the user may not be aware of this and could use a different approach. Additionally, the exercise **isn't focused on counting border pieces**.

4. What does "**help with estimating**" mean here? Estimate what exactly?

Author: 1. I removed the "task" headlines. What is expected is one functionality that fills missing information about jigsaw puzzles and another thing that lists possible row/column combinations for a given number of pieces.
2. The word "list" is both describing a structure in some languages (e.g. C#) and also the concept of a group of items. In this case, the second meaning was intended.
3. If you have an unsolved puzzle, you can either count the border pieces, the inside pieces or partially assemble it in order to count the rows and columns. Since there are almost always less border pieces (except for puzzles with 60 or less pieces, which are easily solved, so such a helper would not be needed), counting the border pieces is the single most efficient way to get to the rows/lines.
4. Estimating the rows/lines from the picture and the number of pieces.

Reviewer 3: 2. Users aren't aware of this. If they see lists in the instructions, they assume they have to return lists. A track may also have chosen to ask to return sets if they think that they are more appropriate. So now tracks will have to add an extra append file to clarify what is going on in order to avoid confusion. This creates an extra burden for track maintainers.
3. I don't disagree, but again, users aren't aware of what you are saying here. They aren't going to understand why the instructions specifically talk about counting border pieces.
4. Okay, but this isn't what line 18 asks for. It asks to return the number of rows and columns based the pieces. Also "estimating" implies a close approximation.

Reviewer 4: Please avoid using terms which _can_ be interpreted as specific implementation details, eg "lists" or "functions". They lead to confusion, future discussions and future fixes, ie they introduce tech debt. Using terms that are not ambiguous reduces future work. 

See that anagram thread (above) for an example where "set" was using in the prose, leading to much discussion down the line and further work.

Author: I already removed it.

> Start with the lowest number of rows and work your way up from there.

Reviewer 3: Gives specific instructions about the approach, and this isn't the only approach. Better let users decide.
```suggestion
```

Author: This instruction is merely a small help to fulfil the tests easier. Otherwise your array may be in reverse order, if you start from the lowest column instead.

Reviewer 4: Does the order need to be enforced?

Author: Need? Not neccessarily. But if it is not enforced, either the tests have to accomodate for different orders (which will increase their complexity by an order of magnitude) or will fail on something that is not documented (which will needlessly frustrate those taking the exercise). If I would get an assignment with such undocumented requirements at work, I would just send it back to product management. So as a help for both exercise maintainers and takers, I wanted to include a clear pointer.

Reviewer 3: > This instruction is merely a small help to fulfil the tests easier.

Why do you think this is needed? Why point towards a specific implementation in the instructions and not let users decide?

Author: I just explained why. Their decision matters, because the tests will otherwise either fail or their implementation will be a lot more complex.

Reviewer 4: It should be pretty simple for the tests to use a set or order the points before testing then. 

`asset sorted(got) == sorted(expected)`

I'm not sure why it would be a big deal to have the tests be a bit more flexible.

[This thread](https://forum.exercism.org/t/anagram-exercise-instructions-and-tests-dont-align-on-ordering/14816/) might be worth reading. Making it explicit at the start that the tests should not enforce an order makes this exercise more robust. 

If the order is going to be enforced, that should be stated clearly and explicitly, eg "the results _must_ be listed with the column ordered from lowest to highest".

> While a single-row jigsaw puzzle might be a strange novelty, it is theoretically possible, so you should include this case.

Reviewer 3: Needs a new line.
```suggestion
While a single-row jigsaw puzzle might be a strange novelty, it is theoretically possible, so you should include this case.

```

### Task 1

> Provide a function `jigsawData` that receives a part of the information and fills in the blanks. If the provided information is insufficient to calculate the rest, there should be an error "Insufficient information". The full information about the jigsaw puzzle contains

Reviewer 4: Should exception handling be called out here or just left to the tests to spec out?

Author: Since I have specified the error in the canonical data, we should tell the users it is expected.

Reviewer 5: Not all tracks support raising an error, and some that do may not want to match that specific message. We’d also need to update the instructions if we update the expected error message.

I’d recommend leaving this out of the instructions. We can remind students to check the test suite about what is expected.

If the information is insufficient to complete the details, or if it contains contradictions, the user should be notified.

The full information about the jigsaw puzzle contains the following parts:

- `pieces`: Total number of pieces
- `border`: Number of border pieces

> - `inside`: Number of inside pieces

Reviewer: Maybe add this to be super clear?

```suggestion
- `inside`: Number of inside (non-border) pieces
```

> For the rows and columns of a 3d ball puzzle, assume a square distribution.

Reviewer 4: What is a 3d ball and what does a square distribution mean?

Reviewer 4: If it's 3D, wouldn't there be three dimensions? A square is a 2D object. Would this be a cube shape?

Author: I removed the 3d configuration

> ### Task 2

Reviewer 4: Concept exercises have tasks. Practice exercises do not.

Spoilt by the comfort of your helper, your friend now no longer wants to count border pieces, so they want another function that gives them a list of the possible even rows/columns configuration for a number of pieces, so they can estimate from the picture in the future.

> Write a `jigsawConfigurations` function that takes the number of pieces and returns an array of the possible numbers of rows and columns.

Reviewer 4: This line is overly prescriptive. Avoid using the word "function" as not all tracks have/use functions. Avoid naming the function; function naming convention is track specific.

You get part of the information and need to fills in the blanks.
In case the data is insufficient or contradictory the user needs to be notified of the issue.
The full information about the jigsaw puzzle contains the following parts:

- `pieces`: Number of pieces
- `border`: Number of border pieces
- `inside`: Number of inside pieces
- `rows`: Number of rows of pieces
- `columns`: Number of columns of pieces
- `aspectRatio`: Aspect ratio of columns / rows
- `format`: Puzzle format, which can be `portrait`, `square`, `landscape`, or `globe`

> For a puzzle in `globe` format, assume an aspect ratio of 1.0.

Reviewer 4: Wouldn't a globe have twice as many columns as rows?

Author: That depends on the projection.
